title: Indonesia The Land of Spices
tags: [indonesia, food]
image: http://gdurl.com/49Q6
intro: Spices refer to the aromatic substances obtained from plants, used in drinks and as food additives to provide taste, smell, as a preservative and as an anti-bacterial agent.
---
Spices refer to the aromatic substances obtained from plants, used in drinks
and as food additives to provide taste, smell, as a preservative and as an
anti-bacterial agent. Spices are also strong, invigorating and refreshing
agents. Indonesia has a long history of spices, and this is why it is known as
the “Land of Spices”. They are dried from barks, leaves, roots, seeds and
fruits of plants and grated to a powder form. Indonesia is famous for spices
from the early historical periods. These seasonings in Indonesia were
traditionally made from dried fruits such as nutmeg and black pepper, roots
such as turmeric, ginger and garlic, barks like cinnamon and dried buds such as
saffron, cardamom, and drinkables such as coffee and tea. Indonesia taught the
world about the use of herbs and exotic spices.

There is a huge selection of food varieties in Indonesia that are
now the most popular food in most neighboring countries such as Malaysia and
Singapore. Indonesian dishes such as beef rending, satay, and sambal are now
favored in most parts of Singapore and Malaysia. All these Indonesian foods are
made by blending various seasonings to give it the taste it deserves. Young
children who are born in Indonesia grow up and easily adapt to the use of
spices.

During the historic trade, the Indonesian cuisine was greatly influenced by the
traders from India, China and Middle East. The Dutch, who were the colonizers
of over 6,000 islands of Indonesia, came to adopt the buffet eating technique
of the Indonesian people. During this time, India was the leading supplier of
spices to the rest of the world. These commodities were traded along the route
connecting Europe and Southern Asia. This route came to be known as Silk Road.
There were 88 types of spices and herbs traded and most of them were endemic
plants used as condiments, ingredients, beauty products and for medicinal
purposes. Their high value during this time became the source of wealth and
power to most kingdoms in the European merchant in the 16th century. Trading
also became the major reason for the cultural development and civilization of
Indonesia.

The trade routes during the early periods facilitated the spices trade business
in the European countries. These routes became the best gateways for trading to
the South Asian countries. The many Indonesian islands attracted pirates,
adventurers and traders from various parts of the world. Venice was at this
time the monopolist dealer of spices, but expected high prices. Portugal and
Spain, therefore, became the controllers of the sea trading routes during this
time. Christopher Columbus, later on, landed Kerala, India and noted several
spices in the land. This led to increased trading between India, China, and
Siam. The Portuguese therefore became very rich in controlling sea trading
routes in Indonesia. Indonesian remote islands became the global interest of
many traders due to its strategic location and rich botanical resources.
Indonesian islands later on came to be known as the ‘Spice Islands’ and it
received much attention due to its cuisine culture.

Moreover, Indonesians also used spices for medicinal
purposes. They depended on spices in treating various ailments to keep their
bodies healthy and free from all sicknesses. Not only were they used for their
flavor but also to remedy various health problems. This made Indonesian culture
to receive much attention from the spices-seeking immigrants.

Indonesia has a hot humid tropical climate. People from hot climatic areas use
a lot of seasonings in their food. Scientifically, people living in hot
climatic areas need spices to stimulate their metabolism. People in Indonesia,
therefore, adopted the use in their food not only for flavor but also for
preservation needs. Spices in Indonesia were used for seasoning to mask the bad
odors in their foods. This factor also contributed immensely to the increased
use of spices in Indonesia.
